Let's keep going.
So we just did pathfinding.
And now we're going to do,
how do you think you would pronounce that?
It's tries.
And I did not make that up,
that's actually the correct
way to pronounce that.
So I still call this tries despite
the fact that it's spelled trie but
let me explain to you
why it's called a trie.
It's actually from the word from retrieve,
right?
So, this is in the middle of this right?
So how do you say retrieve like that?
So it's trie in the sense of retrieve.
However, the funny thing too in order to
implant the trie you must use tries as in
like these kind of tries.
So, I just have a immense
amount of disdain for
whatever person thought that was a good
name for that particular data structure.
But here we are, that's what it's called.
So what is a trie,
beyond being just a trie.
It's a trie that's optimized for
searching, by prefix.
So almost exclusively,
as far as I know, this is useful for
like typeahead, I don't know if
you've ever heard of typeahead.
But it's the idea if I start typing S, A,
N it's gonna auto-complete to
San Francisco, San Diego, San Jose right,
it's gonna start trying
to guess what I'm doing.
The best way to implement those sorts of
typeaheads is using this data structure
called trie.
Okay, so
a trie starts with a root node which is
typically just an empty string, right.
Basically represents nothing.
Then you'll have notes coming off for
the first letter that someone might type.
So let's take a look at this one.
That's B, right?
So you'd have like an empty string, root
node, then someone would type B, right?
And then people,
the typeahead was start trying to
guess what the person's asking for.
So let's say that they were
trying to get to Boston, right?
They would type b-o, and then off of this,
o node, there'd be s, t, o, n for Boston.
But there would also be b-o-i-s-e for
Boise so that's kind of
the idea here with tries is trying to
guess what the user is trying to do,
so that you can kind of like help them
with whatever they're trying to do.
So each one of these write b-o,
the b the s, the t,
the o they enter their
own individual nodes.
In this particular case
there's probably not another
US city that starts with b-o-s-t-o right?
So there's probably only one end off
of the Boston search term here, but
some of them as you might imagine,
there's lots of American cities
that start with b-o, right.
So this is gonna have like 15 different
sorts of notes hanging off of it.
So, in fact, some of them that that can
be kind of difficult is there's American
cities that are self contained and
other ones right.
So that like there's
a city called Sandy and
there's a city called Sandy Springs but
these are both valid cities.
So you can have to provide for
both of those.
So this is y here this y node, right,
let's say that b-o-s-t was a valid
city this t would have a complete
flag on it that says that b-o-s-t
is actually a valid city.
But it would also say I also have children
too, by the ways because Boston is also
a valid city Cool.
What else?
So like, let's take San Francisco and San
Diego, those have a space in them, right?
So it's san<space>,
you would just treat that space as
if it was a normal character, right?
There's no special
consideration given to spaces.
And yeah,
that's really about the entire idea here
is you're just going to make these tries.
This b-o right this could
have infinite amount of
children there could be a b-o-i a b-o-s,
a b-o-n,
a b-o-f, right,
as many as you have cities to justify.
So let's talk about how you
would build one of these.